Lesson 3
Matterhorn man
马特霍恩山区人
Matterhorn n. 马特霍恩峰（阿尔卑斯山之一，在意大利和瑞士边境）

First listen and then answer the following question.
听录音，然后回答以下问题。

What was the main objective of early mountain climbers?

Modern alpinists try to climb mountains by a route which will give them good sport, and the more difficult it is, the more highly it is regarded.
alpinist n. 登山运动员
句型：[the more] adj. it is, [the more] adv. it is done.

In the pioneering days, however, this was not the case at all.
pioneer v. 开辟，倡导； n. 先锋，开辟者

The early climbers were looking for the easiest way to the top, because the summit was the prize they sought, especially if it had never been attained before.
summit n. 顶峰
sought v. past & past participle of seek
attain v. 到达

It is true that during their explorations they often faced difficulties and dangers of the most perilous nature, equipped in a manner which would make a modern climber shudder at the thought, but they did not go out of their way to court such excitement.
perilous adj. 危险的
shudder v. 不寒而栗
court v. 追求
句型：make sb. shudder at the thought 令...一想起就不寒而栗
短语：go out of sb's way to do 特别费心去做，不怕麻烦努力去做

They had a single aim, a solitary goal -- the top!
solitary adj. 唯一的
(Answer sentence.)

It is hard for us to realize nowadays how difficult it was for the pioneers.
nowadays adv. 时下, 现今
句型：realize how adj. it [was], 此处从句用过去式,表达先人的状态处境，并不是虚拟假想语气。

Except for one or two places such as Zermatt and Chamonix, which had rapidly become popular,
Zermatt 泽马特(瑞士南部阿尔卑斯山一村庄,为冬季运动游乐胜地)
Chamonix 夏蒙尼(法国东部白朗峰之北一谷地,为休闲胜地)

Alpine village tended to be impoverished settlements cut off from civilization by the high mountains.
Alpine adj. 阿尔卑斯山的
impoverish v. 使贫困
短语：sth. cut off from sth_2. by sth_3. 被高山阻隔了外界文明的贫穷落脚点; cut off 切断; 使隔绝; 剪去;
句型:Village tended to be [destitute] sth. [kept away] from sth_2. by sth_3.
    句式中连续使用了两个动词的被动式，impoverished在settlements之前充当adj.，cut短语在settlements之后充当定语从句置后。

Such inns as there were generally dirty and flea-ridden;
flea-ridden adj. 布满跳蚤的
句型：such sth. as .. 该句型一般都修饰adj./adv.，这里修饰的是n.

the food simply local cheese accompanied by bread often twelve months old, all washed down with coarse wine.
coarse adj. 粗劣的
wash down with sth./(water) 冲洗, (用水)吞下
定语从句：the food (that) adj. cheese accompanied by bread (which was) often ...=all
句型：such inns as .., the food (that) .., all did with wine. 
    在主干句all did with wine出现之前，两个短语句式都修饰的是名词inns和food，短语从句都后置于名词之后，形成工整的排列句，且排列句枚举的是名词，因此两个短语句式都只有定语部分和被修饰的名词部分，省略了动词。语感上使连续枚举名词短句之后的重点都放在了all did with wine做有力的收尾。
    对比以下的变形句式，枚举的短句都不够长，就不会有最后主干句短促收尾的力量感：
    generally dirty and flea-ridden inns, simply local cheese accompanied by stale bread, all washed down with coarse wine.

Often a valley boasted no inn at all, and climbers found shelter wherever they could --
boast v. 自恃有，引以自豪

sometimes with the local priest (who was usually as poor as his parishioners), sometimes with shepherds or cheese-makers.
priest n.教士; 牧师; 神父
parishioner n. 教区居民
shepherd n. 牧羊人
句型：sometimes with sb_1., sometimes with sb_2. or sb_3. 又是一组并列短语，体会紧接其后的invariably sth. was the samw adj.其语气的强势总结。

Invariably the background was the same: dirt and poverty, and very uncomfortable.
poverty n.贫穷，贫困

For men accustomed to eating seven-course dinners and sleeping between fine linen sheets at home, the change to the Alps must have been very hard indeed.
linen n. 亚麻布床单
the Alps n. 阿尔卑斯山脉
seven-course dinner 西式晚宴一般分为7道菜：Appetizers 头盘，Soup 汤，Salad 沙拉，Main course 主菜，Deserst 甜品，IceCream 餐后冻饮或冰激淋，Coffee 咖啡
介词的使用：sleep [between] sheets
介词：accustom (sb.) [to] doing/sth. 习惯于

WALTER UNSWORTH Matterhorn Man
